main street in downtown Kent is an
attraction to both Kent State students
and members of the Kent community every
day people flock to Main Street and
downtown Kent for entertainment and ways
to pass the time the addition of a corn
alley as well as the Phoenix project has
started to transform the look of
downtown Kent with all the new
attractions it is easy to look past the
historic value of the area but popular
attractions currently sitting on Main
Street hold tremendous amounts of
history dating back to the early 1900s
making downtown Kent the ultimate
destination
we begin our journey at one of the most
famous locations in downtown Kent Ray's
place located just south of Main Street
the site has attracted many different
groups of people throughout the years I
think what's interesting is it's a bar
where young people can have a wonderful
time at night but at the same time I
took my son there when my son was six
months old
whether it's the kids and families the
professor the ditch digger the college
student or the visitor or the alumni
that comes back that really wants to see
this place because this is what's
familiar
this is what they remember you know
although a staple establishment in
downtown Kent the sight of race hasn't
always been a place to eat or grab a
thick beer
he wasn't always raised in raised since
1937 prior to that time the building
dates - I believe the late 19th century
half of the building was a drugstore
that was the original location of
Thompson's drugstore the other half of
it was a Central Hotel 10:11 was
necessarily the most thriving but I
think that the hotel in particular would
have been kept in business because of
the trains Kent was very very much a
railroad town the old hotel had its
share of popular guests in 1894 WC
Fields made a stop at the Central Hotel
after a performance with a vaudeville
group at the Opera House the drugstore
in hotel remained in business until 1937
when Ray's place took over the site
there was a salt or family that operated
raise and down the street from them was
the mantle area family that operated a
number of taverns and lounges where
Dominic's is now Dominic was the son of
the man - Larry so a lot of the
italian-american people lived along
Franklin Avenue
yeah race started in 1937 by race
Alatorre and
his picture of him and his wife is above
the booths downstairs and we say that
was the first pot of chili they were
bringing in so why don't the Kent State
in the 1970s I graduated in 1977 I never
set foot in raise raise was like an old
man's bar it was a townie bar students
weren't particularly welcome there
they'll want Charlie Thomas bought it
which I think was like in 1976 or 1977
raised became a cool place to be by
accident one day I was in here talking
and I'm said something to buddy and he
said do you want to buy it and I said
yeah it became the place to go when you
were a student and you went down for a
beer he went out for a beer and burger
oh and thirties chili you had defference
chili I mean that was really important
since Charlie gained ownership in the
late 70s the historical building has
seen many expansions and renovations one
of which was mother's Junction a band
bar above the restaurant when Charlie
bought the business this place up here
was really for lack of a better word a
real pit and it was dark and Dungy and
almost kind of dirty except we've gotta
clean due to changing alcohol
regulations in the 1990s Brie's expanded
their food menu in addition the building
was renovated from the floorboards to
the rafters to make business safe for
all types of visitors that now go to the
establishment there's no heirs you know
there's you can command suit if you want
to even command with shorts on her or
workout suit or people just always felt
good I think it's I think the charm of
it is it's very very welcoming place you
never feel
some of my best memories are you know
going to raise on a winter night and
it's you know maybe 11 o'clock or
midnight and it's really cold outside
and there's snow on the ground you open
the door and there's light and warmth
and laughter and it's like what I
imagine it's like going into a speakeasy
in the 1920s